---
layout:     post
title:      11bn 
subtitle:   WiFi8 feature developing
date:       2023-10-12
author:     BuBu
header-img: img/green-background.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - WFA
---

----------
### 1.Feature

#### 1.1.Fast Roaming  

	Mobility between APs without re-association. Four levels of data-path switching are under study:
	1.	Break-before-make: Possible packet-loss
	2.	Partial make-before-break: MSDU-level forwarding, 
	3.	Full make-before-break: MPDU level forwarding
	4.	Simultaneous packet delivery from multiple APs. Not considering (3) & (4) for now.


#### 1.2.Multi-homing  

	Multiple APs serve the same client (non-coherent transmissions). Part of the Single-Mobility-domain MLD association.

#### 1.3.Coordinated TDMA (C-TDMA)  

	TXOP Owner AP shares the TXOP with shared APs using TDM  

#### 1.4.Coordinated OFDMA (C-OFDMA)  
	
	TXOP Owner AP shares the TXOP with shared APs using FDM

#### 1.5.Coordinated SR (C-SR)

	TXOP Owner AP allows overlapping transmissions by shared APs during the TXOP with transmit power restrictions

#### 1.6.Coordinated rTWT (C-rTWT)

	Extends 11be rTWT to multiple BSSs, where all BSSs end the TXOP before the time-sync (rTWT SP start). 
	Significantly reduces inter-BSS hidden-node issues. 

#### 1.7.Coordinated Beam forming (CoBF)

	Form spatial nulls (using CSI) when spatial dimensions are under-utilized within the BSS, to allow concurrent transmissions from neighboring APs, improves network throughput.

#### 1.8.Joint Transmission  

	Pool together antennas of multiple APs to act as one big antenna array to achieve better spatial multiplexing,  beamforming and power gains. Needs stringent synchronization and fast backhaul.  

#### 1.9.Precoding for UL MU-MIMO

	Uplink MU MIMO precoding for uplink rate and reliability improvement. Gains happen when Ntx at STA are > the per-STA-Nss at the STA. Does need more STAs with simultaneous traffic so that the per-STA-Nss can be lower than the Ntx.

#### 1.10.Relay-extensions	

	Targeting XR applications with latency/mobility KPIs. Root-AP will manage the clients/QoS. End-to-end reservation using MU RTS TXS, followed by RTS/CTS.

#### 1.11.Simplified Relay	

	Low-cost relays by allowing pass-through MPDUs. Stateless/Scheduler-less design for the relay. Root-AP manages the clients directly. Will also include low-latency

#### 1.12.AP Power-save	Two modes under standards discussion: 
 
	Mid/long-term using enhanced TWT scheduling
	Short-term using dynamic adaptation with t’put needs

#### 1.13.480MHz	

	3-5 channels based on seven 160MHz channels with 160MHz overlap e.g.: [1 2 3] UNII5, [3 4 5], [5 6 7] 

#### 1.14.Control frame protection	

	Addresses remaining link-layer security in control frames such as Trigger frame, block acknowledgment etc 

#### 1.15.QoS enhancements	

	Latency reporting for both UL and DL. Used for scheduling purposes by AP  

#### 1.16.Priority Packet Insertion	

	Allows insertion of low latency packets into an ongoing sequence/packets. Different methods under discussion. No winner yet  

#### 1.17.Managed P2P	

	Allows AP-controlled service period allocation for P2P transactions. Helps with the scalability
