---
layout:     post
title:      Acronyms
subtitle:   专业术语&首字母缩写
date:       2023-06-11
author:     BuBu
header-img: img/red-background.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - WLAN Driver
    - WiFi
    - IEEE802.11
---
# 前言

整理WLAN，网络相关的专业术语和首字母缩写。

#### Number
	IEEE Std 802.11-1999 Edition(Clause 15)： DSSS PHY specification for the 2.4 GHz band designated for ISM applications  
	802.11b(Clause 16): High rate direct sequence spread spectrum (HR/DSSS) PHY specification  
	802.11g(Clause 17): Orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) PHY specification
	802.11a: OFDM PHY specification for the 5 GHz band
	802.11n(Clause 19): High-throughput (HT) PHY specification
	802.11ac(Clause 21): Very high throughput (VHT) PHY specification
	802.11ax(Clause 27): High-efficiency (HE) PHY specification
	802.1Q: Media Access Control (MAC) Bridges and Virtual Bridge Local Area Networks  
	802.11W: Protected Management Frames  
	802.11V: IEEE 802.11 Wireless Network Management  
	802.11D: Amendment 3: Specification for operation in additional regulatory domains  

#### ABCD
A

	ACL: Access Control List. ACL defining policy and related actions for specific flow.  
	AMSDU: Aggregated MAC Service Data Unit  

B  

	BSRP: Buffer Status Report Poll  
	BSR: Buffer Status Report   
	BQRP: Bandwidth Query Report Poll  
	Butler: Butler matrix is a beamforming network used to feed a phased array of antenna elements. Its purpose is to control the direction of a beam, or beams, of radio transmission (achieve cable MIMO).  

C

	CVLAN: Customer network VLANs, also called inner VLANs, refer to VLANs that a customer uses on the private network.
	CTPID STPID: TPID settings include CVLAN TPID and SVLAN TPID. A QinQ-enabled port uses the CVLAN TPID to match incoming tagged frames.  
	CS: customer sample  
	CLPC: closed loop power control   

D

	DL MU: Downlink multi-user  
	DSCP: Differentiated Services Code Point   
	DFT/IDFT: Inverse discrete Fourier transform
    DPP : Device Provisioning Protocol    




#### EFGH
E

	ETSI: European Telecommunications Standards Institute  
	ES: engineer sample  
	ED: Engineer Drop  
	EMA AP: enhanced multiple basic service set identifier (BSSID) advertisement (EMA) access point (AP)    
	EIP197: RAMBUS IP. The Protocol-IP-197 Multi-Protocol Engine is an IP family for accelerating IPSec, SSL, TLS, DTLS (CAPWAP), 3GPP and MACsec up to 5, 10, 20, 40, 50 and 100 Gbps in multi-core server, communication or network processors offering a large selection of cipher algorithms. Designed for fast integration, maximum CPU offload and offering full transforms, it provides a reliable and effective embedded IP solution that is easy to integrate into multi-core servers, communication and network processors. It is pre-integrated with the DPDK, Linaro ODP and Linux crypto APIs. Therefore, this IP is designed for seamless integration of network security processing in systems, with its inline and AMBA bus interfaces, embedded classification as well as support of the public APIs.  
	


F

	FC: feature complete  
	FCC: Federal Communications Commission  
	FDB (forwarding data base) is also called Address Resolution Lookup (ARL) table or MAC table by the other vendors.  

G

	GI: guard interval durations

H
 	
	HE TB PPDU: high-efficiency (HE) trigger-based (TB) physical layer (PHY) protocol data unit (PPDU): A PPDU transmitted with HE TB PPDU format.   
	HDS (Hardware decision sequencer): The HDS binary (Hardware decision sequencer) is a debug binary that would consist of the sequence of execution of functions in HALPHY.   
	HE-LTF: HE-long training field

#### IJKL
I

	ISI: Inter-Symbol Interference 

J

K

L

#### MNOP
M

	MIC: Japan Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications  
	MU-RTS: Multi-user request to send  
	MU-BAR: multi-user block ack request  
	MEC: Multicast Echo check. Multicast Echo check (MEC) feature ensures multicast/broadcast packets that are transmitted from a STA and echoed back to the same STA because of intra-BSS feature of AP gets dropped.

N

	NAWDS: The Non-Association WDS (NAWDS) is an AP feature that provides an alternative WDS solution that does not require any association between peer NAWDS APs. A NAWDS AP could be statically configured to receive WDS packets from and send packets to peer NAWDS APs. 
	NTBR (non-TB ranging): A ranging measurement procedure that uses NDP, and is not initiated by a Ranging Trigger frame, refer to 802.11az-2022.pdf 

O

	OLPC: open loop power control  


#### QRST
Q

	QoS: Quality of service  
	QMF: quality-of-service management frame  
	QRTR: It used to be called as IPC route(Inter process communication router as it uses sockets to communicate)  

R

	RESMGR: Resource Manager  
	Remote procedure framework: See https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/remoteproc.txt for more information. This is a standard framework provided by the Linux kernel to do power-on and power-off through registered callbacks for the target processor.  

S

	SIFS: short interframe space  
	SVLAN: Service provider network VLANs, also called outer VLANs, refer to VLANs that a service provider uses to transmit VLAN tagged traffic for customers.SVLAN TPIDs are configurable on a per-port basis. A service provider-side port uses the SVLAN TPID to replace the TPID in outgoing frames SVLAN tags and match incoming tagged frames.  

T

	TOS: Type of Service  
	TSO: TCP segmentation offload (TSO) is an optimization technique that reduces the CPU overhead in TCP/IP-related network operations. With TSO enabled, a network internet controller (NIC) splits large data chunks traveling over a network into smaller TCP segments. Without TSO, the segmentation is performed by the CPU, which creates an overhead. TSO is also known as LSO (Large Segment Offload).   
	TxBF: Transmit beamforming  


#### UVW
U

	U-APSD: unscheduled automatic power save delivery  

V

	VLAN TCI: VLAN Tag Control Information  
	VSI: Virtual switch interface  
	VLAN TPID: TPID identifies a frame as an 802.1Q tagged frame.  

W

	Wi-Fi (WLAN that uses the IEEE 802.11 standard)  
	WAPI: WLAN Authentication & Privacy Infrastructure   
	WTS: Wireless test suit


#### XYZ







 









