---
layout:     post
title:      OFDMA     
subtitle:   orthogonal frequency division multiple access   
date:       2023-07-26
author:     BuBu
header-img: img/yellow-background.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - WLAN Driver   
  
---

----------
### 1.Acronyms

**CBF**: Compressed Beamforming   
**TxBF**: Transmit beamforming     
**MIMO**: Multiple-input and Multiple-output  
**high-throughput (HT) null data packet (NDP) announcement**: A physical layer (PHY) protocol data unit (PPDU) that contains one or more +HTC frames (i.e., frames with an HT Control field) that have the HT NDP Announcement subfield equal to 1.  
**null data packet (NDP)**: A physical layer (PHY) protocol data unit (PPDU) that carries no Data field.   
**multi-user (MU) beamformer**: An access point (AP) that transmits a physical layer (PHY) protocol data unit (PPDU) using a multi-user beamforming steering matrix.    
**beamformee**: A station (STA) that **receives** a physical layer (PHY) protocol data unit (PPDU) that was transmitted using a beamforming steering matrix.  
**beamformer**: A station (STA) that **transmits** a physical layer (PHY) protocol data unit (PPDU) using a beamforming steering matrix.  
**beamforming**: A spatial filtering mechanism used at a transmitter to improve the received signal power or signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) at an intended receiver. Syn: beam steering.   
**beamforming steering matrix**: A matrix determined using knowledge of the channel between a transmitter and an intended receiver that maps from space-time streams to transmit antennas with the goal of **improving the signal power or signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) at the intended receiver.**  
**NFRP**: NDP feedback report poll   
**BRPOLL**: Beamforming Report Poll  
**CBF**: Compressed Beamforming report
**BAR**: BlockAckReq  
**BA**: BlockAck  
**orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA)**: An orthogonal frequency division multiple (OFDM)-based multiple access technique by which multiple stations (STAs) either simultaneously transmit to a single STA or simultaneously receive from a single STA independent data streams over different groups of subcarriers.  
**BQR**: bandwidth query report  
**BQRP**: bandwidth query report poll  
**BFRP**: beamforming report poll  
**BSR**: buffer status report  
**BSRP**: buffer status report poll  
**Traffic Identifier (TID)**: An identifier used to classify a packet in Wireless LAN. A QoS-enabled MAC layer of 802.11 protocol stack uses the TIDs to classify and prioritizes processing of incoming or outgoing frames.   

**PLCP**: Physical Layer Convergence Protocol 


----------

### 2.DL OFDMA 

By default, firmware uses the QoS RU allocator algorithm, which dynamically allocates RUs for users based on the current QoS priority of the STAs being considered for transmission.   
  
	ru_alloc_get_alloc_mode()  
	mode = RU_ALLOC_MODE_QOS;

For testing purposes, a test command is added to the codebase to statically configure RU allocation among the clients.  

	RU_ALLOC_MODE_STATIC  
	Set static MRU OFDMA :DL OFDMA Data Static RU config  
	wifitool athX setUnitTestCmd 0x4b 5 40 0 726 0 242 -- DL 11be OFDMA Data PPDU RU allocation  
	0 726: is for user1 alloc 484+242-tone MRU 1  
	0 242: is for user2 alloc 242-tone RU 1  
	Refer to 802.11be "Figure 36-18—Allowed 484+242-tone MRUs in an OFDMA 80 MHz EHT PPDU"  

STA need to config **"re\_ul_resp=0x3"** in INI file. UL response TxQ is used to do STA side Tx as a response for UL MU-OFDMA, UL MU-MIMO basic triggers.

	Check OFDMA statistics:
	wifistats wifix 9  #Tx stats for both SU and OFDMA
	wifistats wifix 17 #OFDMA grouping stats
	wifistats wifix 1  #Flush error stats
	cfg80211tool wifix fc_peer_stats <client mac addr> #RU allocation info

	wifistats wifix 9 1  #Tx rate stats for EHT
	wifistats wifix 17 7 #Per user DL OFDMA MPDU stats for EHT  

The Rules to choose different modes (SU/OFDMA/MU-MIMO)  

	■ OFDMA mode is favored for small packets, for example with packet duration <D1
	■ MU-MIMO mode is favored for long packets, for example with packet duration >D2 	
	■ SU is used for packets of length between D1 and D2, and other lengths when higher throughput can be achieved by SU (such as when packet duration >D2 and only one user has data to send)

	Default values for D1 and D2 are 300 µs and 1 ms, respectively. These commands change the values:
	wifitool ath0 setUnitTestCmd 0x47 2 11 D2 
	wifitool ath0 setUnitTestCmd 0x47 2 17 D1 

	Use this formula to calculate the packet duration:
	Estimated SU Duration = TID Queue depth (bytes) * 8 / Current SU PHY Rate (from rate control)

### 3.UL OFDMA  

UL OFDMA require that the AP can **generate corresponding basic trigger frames**, **receive the OFDMA trigger-based (TB) PPDUs**, and **send the correct multi-STA BAs**.  

Reference 80-37609-1 802\_11be\_WLAN\_AP\_Test\_User_Guide :  

	Figure 2-4 802.11be UL-OFDMA AMPDU with multi-STA BA

Reference 802.11be: 

	9.3.1.22.1.1 Common Info field  
	Figure 9-88a—EHT variant Common Info field format
	Figure 9-92a—EHT variant User Info field format
 