---
layout:     post
title:      11AX HE PHY
subtitle:   High-efficiency (HE) PHY
date:       2023-06-26
author:     BuBu
header-img: img/red-background.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - 11AX HE
    - WLAN Driver
    - PHY
    - IEEE802.11
---

>High-efficiency (HE) PHY




## HE PHY Overview

### GI (guard interval durations)

	The HE PHY provides support for 0.8 µs, 1.6 µs, and 3.2 µs guard interval durations.
	
	/* Guard Intervals */
	enum WHAL_GI_E {
    	WHAL_GI_800,
    	WHAL_GI_400,
    	WHAL_GI_1600,
    	WHAL_GI_3200,
    	WHAL_GI_CNT,
	};
	
#### The purpose of inserting GI

	Determine the length of the GI according to the GI_TYPE parameter of the TXVECTOR. Refer to 19.3.11.11 and 19.3.11.12 for details.
	In the PHY, the GI with GI duration indicated in GI_TYPE parameter of the TXVECTOR is inserted in every data OFDM symbol as a countermeasure against delay spread.

	against delay spread: Refer to https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/515351041
	Different symbols interfere with each other, which is Inter-Symbol Interference (ISI).
	In order to avoid ISI, the symbol duration needs to be longer than the delay spread time, so in OFDM system, consider inserting a guard interval (GI) between the preceding and following symbols.


### HE-LTF (HE-long training field) symbol durations

	The HE PHY provides support for 3.2 µs (1x), 6.4 µs (2x), and 12.8 µs (4x) HE-LTF symbol durations, excluding the GI duration.

	/* HE-LTF Modes */
	enum WHAL_HE_LTF_E {
    	WHAL_HE_LTF_DEFAULT,
    	WHAL_HE_LTF_1X,
    	WHAL_HE_LTF_2X,
    	WHAL_HE_LTF_4X,
    	WHAL_HE_LTF_CNT,
	};

#### Effects of HE-LTF

	The HE-LTF field provides a means for the receiver to estimate the MIMO channel between the set of constellation mapper outputs (or, if STBC is applied, the STBC encoder outputs) and the receive chains.
	An HE transmission has a preamble that contains HE-LTF symbols, where the data tones of each HE-LTF symbol are multiplied by entries belonging to a matrix P, to enable channel estimation at the receiver. 